README.md, before:

# Polkadot REST API

## Implementation Details

### Logging

Logging levels supported are ```race, debug, info, http, warn, error```. **http** level allows for the emission of http information logging (method, route, elapsed time, success code). However currently tracing does not support *http*.  To mitigate this, **http** level falls back to *debug* for successful logs, *warn* for 4** request logs, and *error* for 5**

## Metrics and Monitoring

The API exposes Prometheus metrics at `/metrics`. To enable metrics collection, set:

```bash
export SAS_METRICS_ENABLED=true
```

A sample Grafana dashboard is provided in `metrics/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/` for visualizing metrics.

### docker compose

When running locally with `docker compose`, the Grafana dashboard is accessible at http://localhost:3000/d/polkadot-rest-api

If needed, the login and password for grafana are set to "admin" and "admin" respectfully.

Prometheus is accessible at http://localhost:9090/

## Benchmarks

### Benchmark Workflows

The repository includes two main benchmark workflows that run automatically on pushes and pull requests to the `main` branch:

#### 1. Benchmark workflow

- Builds and starts the server
- Runs performance tests against all configured endpoints
- Measures throughput (requests/second) and latency metrics (P50, P90, P99)
- Publishes results to GitHub Pages for historical tracking

**GitHub Pages Dashboard**: [https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/)

#### 2. Benchmark Comparison (vs Sidecar)


- Runs benchmarks against public Sidecar instance
- Calculates performance differences and improvements
- Generates comparison reports with percentage differences
- Publishes comparison metrics to GitHub Pages for trend analysis

**GitHub Pages Dashboard**: [https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/comparison/](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/comparison/)

### Benchmark Metrics

Both workflows track the following metrics:

- **Throughput**: Requests per second (higher is better)
- **Average Latency**: Mean response time in milliseconds (lower is better)
- **P50 Latency**: 50th percentile latency (lower is better)
- **P90 Latency**: 90th percentile latency (lower is better)
- **P99 Latency**: 99th percentile latency (lower is better)

## Testing

### Unit Tests

Unit tests are embedded in the source code and test individual functions and modules.

**Run all unit tests:**
```bash
cargo test --workspace --all-features
```

### Integration Tests

These tests are located in `crates/integration_tests/tests/`.

#### Available Integration Test Suites

1. **basic.rs** - Tests basic API endpoints (health, version)
2. **latest.rs** - Tests endpoints with the latest blockchain data
3. **historical.rs** - Tests endpoints with historical blockchain data

#### Test Configuration

Test definitions are located in `crates/integration_tests/tests/config/test_config.json`. To add new integration tests, add them to this configuration file.

#### Running Integration Tests

**Step 1:** Start the API server in one terminal

For Polkadot:
```bash
export SAS_SUBSTRATE_URL=wss://rpc.polkadot.io
cargo run --release --bin polkadot-rest-api
```

For Kusama:
```bash
export SAS_SUBSTRATE_URL=wss://kusama-rpc.polkadot.io
cargo run --release --bin polkadot-rest-api
```

**Step 2:** Run tests in another terminal

```bash
# Run all integration tests
cargo test --package integration_tests

# Run a specific test suite (recommended - cleaner output)
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical  # All historical tests
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest      # All latest tests
cargo test --package integration_tests --test basic       # All basic tests
```

**Running tests for a specific chain:**

```bash
# Historical tests (use fixtures for regression testing)
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_kusama
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_asset_hub_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_asset_hub_kusama

# Latest tests (test against live blockchain data)
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_kusama
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_asset_hub_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_asset_hub_kusama
```

**Viewing test output:**

By default, cargo captures test output. To see the detailed test progress with checkmarks and colored output, add `-- --nocapture`:

```bash
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_polkadot -- --nocapture
```

Example output:
```
Running 2 historical test cases for chain: polkadot

✓ /v1/blocks/{blockId} (block 1000000)
✓ /v1/blocks/{blockId} (block 10000000)

════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
Historical Test Results for polkadot
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
  ✓ Passed: 2
  ✗ Failed: 0
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
```

### Updating Test Fixtures

To update test fixtures with current blockchain data:

```bash
./scripts/update_fixtures.sh
```

Commit message:

fix: Allow hostnames in config validation for loki addresses
Also adding Loki to docker compose setup.

Loki is assumed to be enabled when metrics are enabled. This is matching
behavior from Sidecar. In the future it will likely make sense to have
Loki be optionally toggled.

README.md, after:

# Polkadot REST API

## Implementation Details

### Logging

Logging levels supported are ```race, debug, info, http, warn, error```. **http** level allows for the emission of http information logging (method, route, elapsed time, success code). However currently tracing does not support *http*.  To mitigate this, **http** level falls back to *debug* for successful logs, *warn* for 4** request logs, and *error* for 5**

## Metrics and Monitoring

The API exposes Prometheus metrics at `/metrics`. To enable metrics collection, set:

```bash
export SAS_METRICS_ENABLED=true
```

A sample Grafana dashboard is provided in `metrics/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/` for visualizing metrics.

### docker compose

When running locally with `docker compose`, the Grafana dashboard is accessible at http://localhost:3000/d/polkadot-rest-api

If needed, the login and password for grafana are set to "admin" and "admin" respectfully.

Prometheus is accessible at http://localhost:9090/

Loki logs can be viewed in Grafana at Explore > Loki (select Loki as the datasource and query with `{service_name="polkadot-rest-api"}`)

## Benchmarks

### Benchmark Workflows

The repository includes two main benchmark workflows that run automatically on pushes and pull requests to the `main` branch:

#### 1. Benchmark workflow

- Builds and starts the server
- Runs performance tests against all configured endpoints
- Measures throughput (requests/second) and latency metrics (P50, P90, P99)
- Publishes results to GitHub Pages for historical tracking

**GitHub Pages Dashboard**: [https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/)

#### 2. Benchmark Comparison (vs Sidecar)


- Runs benchmarks against public Sidecar instance
- Calculates performance differences and improvements
- Generates comparison reports with percentage differences
- Publishes comparison metrics to GitHub Pages for trend analysis

**GitHub Pages Dashboard**: [https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/comparison/](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-rest-api/dev/bench/comparison/)

### Benchmark Metrics

Both workflows track the following metrics:

- **Throughput**: Requests per second (higher is better)
- **Average Latency**: Mean response time in milliseconds (lower is better)
- **P50 Latency**: 50th percentile latency (lower is better)
- **P90 Latency**: 90th percentile latency (lower is better)
- **P99 Latency**: 99th percentile latency (lower is better)

## Testing

### Unit Tests

Unit tests are embedded in the source code and test individual functions and modules.

**Run all unit tests:**
```bash
cargo test --workspace --all-features
```

### Integration Tests

These tests are located in `crates/integration_tests/tests/`.

#### Available Integration Test Suites

1. **basic.rs** - Tests basic API endpoints (health, version)
2. **latest.rs** - Tests endpoints with the latest blockchain data
3. **historical.rs** - Tests endpoints with historical blockchain data

#### Test Configuration

Test definitions are located in `crates/integration_tests/tests/config/test_config.json`. To add new integration tests, add them to this configuration file.

#### Running Integration Tests

**Step 1:** Start the API server in one terminal

For Polkadot:
```bash
export SAS_SUBSTRATE_URL=wss://rpc.polkadot.io
cargo run --release --bin polkadot-rest-api
```

For Kusama:
```bash
export SAS_SUBSTRATE_URL=wss://kusama-rpc.polkadot.io
cargo run --release --bin polkadot-rest-api
```

**Step 2:** Run tests in another terminal

```bash
# Run all integration tests
cargo test --package integration_tests

# Run a specific test suite (recommended - cleaner output)
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical  # All historical tests
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest      # All latest tests
cargo test --package integration_tests --test basic       # All basic tests
```

**Running tests for a specific chain:**

```bash
# Historical tests (use fixtures for regression testing)
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_kusama
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_asset_hub_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_asset_hub_kusama

# Latest tests (test against live blockchain data)
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_kusama
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_asset_hub_polkadot
cargo test --package integration_tests --test latest test_latest_asset_hub_kusama
```

**Viewing test output:**

By default, cargo captures test output. To see the detailed test progress with checkmarks and colored output, add `-- --nocapture`:

```bash
cargo test --package integration_tests --test historical test_historical_polkadot -- --nocapture
```

Example output:
```
Running 2 historical test cases for chain: polkadot

✓ /v1/blocks/{blockId} (block 1000000)
✓ /v1/blocks/{blockId} (block 10000000)

════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
Historical Test Results for polkadot
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
  ✓ Passed: 2
  ✗ Failed: 0
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
```

### Updating Test Fixtures

To update test fixtures with current blockchain data:

```bash
./scripts/update_fixtures.sh
```
